The Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission (MCMC) has taken note of viral photos and videos that showed a courier company's workers mishandling packages in a hub filled with parcels

In a statement on Tuesday, 9 February, the regulatory body stated that it views the incident seriously and has instructed the courier company to provide an explanation on what happened.

The MCMC statement, while addressing the incident, did not name the courier company.

However, following the incident that happened over the weekend, the courier company, J&T Express, has officially addressed the issue in a statement that was released on Sunday, 7 February.

According to J&T Express, the commotion in the video was due to a misunderstanding among some workers over year-end bonuses, which led to violent sorting of packages on 4 February.

Furthermore, the company assured customers compensation for their damaged packages.

The J&T workers who were involved in the viral video also issued a public apology.

The regulatory body also said that courier companies that fail to protect the rights of consumers can be slapped with both fine and jail

"All courier companies licensed under the Postal Services Act 2012 must abide by the conditions and rules set especially in protecting the rights of consumers," read the MCMC statement.

"Licence holders could be fined with a sum of not more than RM300,000 or jailed for a term not exceeding three years, or both if they are found to have violated any subsidiary legislation under Act."

Additionally, the regulatory body urged consumers to understand and be aware of their rights before choosing any courier service for the delivery of their purchases.

"If there are any damaged or loss items, consumers are urged to contact the service provider to report a complaint. If the consumer is not satisfied with the outcome, they may proceed to lodge a formal complaint with the commission via the Aduan SKMM portal."a.

KUALA LUMPUR (Dec 3): Malaysia is now ranked the 16th most connected country, according to the DHL Global Connectedness Index 2020.

The country is also the second most connected in the East Asia Pacific, behind Singapore which remained as the second most connected nation in the world.

“Besides ranking countries on their actual level of globalisation, we compare actual levels to predictions. based on the country's size, economic development and location.

“And Malaysia is one of our top five outperformers relative to expectations on the index,” said Professor Steven Altman, the lead author of the latest edition of the DHL Global Connectedness Index, in a virtual press conference today.

Altman is also a senior research scholar at New York University’s Stern School of Business.

WITH the Movement Control Order (MCO) once again taking away the pleasure of physical shopping, a further increase in demand for courier services is anticipated.

While courier services are deemed essential and companies are running at full tilt, some may fulfil deliveries at a slower rate in compliance with reduced manpower and social distancing measures.

The situation has presented an opportunity for industry players to renew operational systems, digitalise their operations and improve on effectiveness, efficiency and resilience.

The company also said they did not owe their employees any overdue wages, saying that they were willing to be monitored by the authorities and the public.

J&T Vice President Jason Ren said employees had resumed normal working status as of Feb 5, and had actively sorted and processed the packages of customers.

In a statement today, Ren said the company had been fully committed to localisation development, continuously improving employee compensation and benefits, and promoting the development of Malaysia's social economy and e-commerce industry.
J&T, he added, were also committed to building a complete compensation and benefits system to increase employee benefits, giving employees year-end bonuses after comprehensive consideration, in accordance with the bonus rules and regulations.

"In accordance with the Malaysian Labour Law, full bonuses are paid to employees who have worked for a year.

"For employees who have worked for less than a year, bonuses are paid according to the length of working time, without prejudice.

"Unfortunately, certain department employees are not clear about the bonus payment scheme which led to violent sorting of packages on Feb 4, inciting some employees to make collective disturbances and posting the videos to social media.

"Our Perak state management has immediately handled and clarified the incident," he added.

Ren also admitted that the management was at fault for only providing "simple training" for temporary workers, who had been hired due to the rapid increase in package volume during the Movement Control Order period.

"This is indeed a fault with our management. We have formulated special regulations and management methods for settlement of claims and supervision of similar incidents, and fast settlement of lost packages."

Yesterday, a video went viral on social media, allegedly of J&T staff rioting at a warehouse due to problems over wages.

The 15-second video showed a man hurling packages belonging to customers on the ground.

https://says.com/my/news/mcmc-issues-warning-to-j-t-express-over-video-showing-staff-mishandling-customers-parcels