Logistics solutions provider, City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd, recently took delivery of a large fleet of new Isuzu trucks. City-Link, one of Isuzu Malaysia Sdn Bhd’s key customers, had purchased the 277 units of various light duty, medium duty and prime mover trucks via Isuzu dealer Jumbo Arena Sdn Bhd.

This is not the first time City-Link has taken delivery of a large fleet of Isuzu trucks, having done so in previous years as well. And with this latest truck delivery, City-Link Express is also the first Malaysian customer of Isuzu’s to own the Isuzu Safety Plus trucks. The safety platform was recently launched by Isuzu Malaysia in early September.

“We are extremely delighted to deliver the new Isuzu trucks to City-Link Express, one of our long-term valued customers in Malaysia. This delivery signifies Isuzu’s commitment in supporting City-Link Express on achieving its business objectives despite the current environment,” said Koji Nakamura, Chief Executive Officer, Isuzu Malaysia.

“Our trucks are built with the Isuzu S.E.E Technology at its core, which represents safety, economy and environment to offer all our customers like City-Link Express the reliability, efficiency and versatility that they demand to help increase their business sustainability and output,” he added.

A portion of the new light duty trucks delivered are equipped with the Isuzu Safety Plus platform. These are equipped with safety features including Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Electronic Brake-force Distribution (EBD), Anti-Slip Regulator (ASR) and Supplemental Restraint System (SRS) Airbag.

City-Link Express was founded in 1979 and is Malaysia’s first courier company. Today, it is one of the leading integrated express, last mile delivery companies with a prominent brand foothold. The delivery of the new Isuzu trucks is expected to further strengthen City-Link Express’ existing fleet and also support the growth of its business operations in Malaysia.

“The exponential growth of e-commerce and increased consumer spending online that we have seen in recent years have spurred the demand for courier delivery services,” commented Ronald Tan, Chief Executive Officer, City-Link Express. “City-Link Express has been a trusted courier delivery company for decades and we continue to be fully committed to quality services by ensuring our customers’ goods reach the intended destinations on-time and in good condition,” he added.

To support its growing business volume, City-Link Express requires a fleet of trucks that are reliable, safe and easy-to-maintain. “In our line of business, we need trucks that can go the distance with us, as well as on having attentive and quick-to-respond aftermarket support. These are very important as we are in the business of speed and meeting delivery deadlines safely. We have been using Isuzu trucks for 10 years now and have been very satisfied on all these aspects, thus the decision to procure the additional trucks,” he shared.

Tan also added that Isuzu offers City-Link Express the most cost-effective solutions. Its trucks are fuel-efficient and the cost for parts, services and maintenance are competitively priced, which helps the company reduce its operational costs. Further, the company finds the black box feature useful in tracking its trucks for better efficiency and safety.

”The user-friendliness and drivability of Isuzu trucks make our drivers’ job easier too. This results in less fatigue and downtime, and increased productivity and efficiency. In return, this has helped us in retaining the good drivers we have, as well as in attracting new recruits,” he said.

A vehicle handover ceremony was held recently at Dataran City-Link Express in Jenjarom, Selangor. “We are very honoured to know that City-Link Express has been reaping the benefits of using Isuzu trucks and has expressed great satisfaction with our brand. This handover truly highlights a business relationship built upon Isuzu’s brand promise, product quality and strong aftermarket support. We are highly appreciative of the level of trust City-Link Express continues to give us,” said Koji Nakamura.An official ceremony was held recently at the newly set up City-Link Express Warehouse in Cheras, Kuala Lumpur, to commemorate the handover of Isuzu Malaysia’s commercial trucks to City-Link Express (M) Sdn Bhd.  The handover comprised of 90 units of Isuzu ELF 4-wheeler model [NLR77UEE-2E], procured in line with the company’s business explansion plans.

Isuzu has long been City-Link Express’ preferred brand of commercial vehicle, as seen in the long relationship and mutual trust between both companies since its first fleet purchase was made in 2011. The latest procurement will further improve City-Link Express’ reliable services, and at the same time continue in achieving its customer satisfaction.

These 90 units were specifically procured to increase mobilisation at various City-Link Express centres nationwide, including the Cheras Warehouse & Distribution Centre, which offers business clients specialised services of storing goods in temperature-controlled environment, before being packed, delivered and shipped out to all destinations accordingly.

During his speech, Atsunori Murata, Chief Operating Officer of Isuzu Malaysia, took the time to convey his sincere gratittude to City-Link Express for their continuous support to Isuzu as their preferred vehicle for their business operations. Murata hopes that this recent procurement will further enhance City-Link Express’ day-to-day operations.

To commemorate the special occassion, Koji Nakamura, Chief Executive Offer of Isuzu Malaysia Sdn Bhd, presented a symbolic mock key and an appreciation momento to City-Link Express’ Chief Executive Officer, Ronald Tan. Also in attendance was City-Link Express’ Senior Sales Manager, Colin Tan.

Previously, in February 2019, training sessions on product knowledge and basic maintenance was held for City-Link Express drivers at their central warehouse and operating hub in Saujana Putra. The training sessions was conducted to ensure attendees are well equipped with vital knowledge and understanding of the Isuzu trucks recently procured by City-Link Express, as well as learning the techniques of economical and safe driving.Isuzu Malaysia recently delivered a total of 141 units of their commercial trucks to City-Link Express Sdn Bhd, during an official handover ceremony held at City-Link Express’ ‘Super Hub’ facility in Bandar Saujana Putra, Selangor.

The handover comprised of 128 units of the ELF 4-wheeler (NLR77UEE) model, eight units of the ELF 6-wheeler (NPR81UKH) model and five units of the GIGA (GXR) model.

The recent handover is in continuity of the mutual trust and longstanding relationship between both companies, since its first fleet deal made back in 2011.

The latest purchase has further strengthen City-Link Express’ existing fleet of vehicles, in line with plans of branch expansions throughout the country, while providing fast delivery and customer satisfaction.

The handover also saw City-Link Express’ first purchase of the Isuzu GIGA Prime Mover Trucks as part of their expansion growth.

These container trucks are targeted for long distance deliveries and long haul usages, in addition to its high rigidity chassis design and aerodynamic cabin design.

The GIGA truck offers outstanding engine output and torque, ensuring high fuel efficiency, which makes it an ideal choice for businesses seeking cost-effective transportation.

Isuzu Malaysia chief executive Koji Nakamura express his gratitude and appreciation to City-Link Express for their continuous support for Isuzu Malaysia and its range of durable and economical trucks.

He is confident that the Isuzu trucks recently delivered will be a vital force for City-Link Express to achieve their company’s long-term business objectives and overall mission accordingly.

To commemorate the handover, Nakamura presented a symbolic mock key, a special banner and a F-series miniature toy truck to the Founder and Executive Chairman of City-Link Express, Datuk David Tan.

Also in attendance was City-Link Express’ Chief Executive Officer, Ronald Tan, and Sales Manager, Colin Tan. After the ceremony, guests were brought on a tour around the City-Link facility.

Due to both companies’ established partnership, Isuzu Malaysia will carry out training sessions for the drivers on product knowledge and basic maintenance of the GIGA GXR model.

These sessions are expected to provide attendees with vital knowledge and understanding of the key features of the GXR model, while achieving economic and safety driving.