KUALA LUMPUR (Sept 23): Kenanga Research said GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX) stands to benefit from the pick-up in e-commerce activities as demand for courier services (on the back of more on-line purchases) is expected to increase in the wake of the Covid-19 pandemic.

In its daily technical highlights note today, the research said GDEX has delivered consistent annual net earnings ranging between RM24 million and RM37 million over the last five financial years.

“Its latest financial year ended (FY) June 2020, however, was affected by the Covid-19-related disruptions, the absence of gain on redemption of convertible bonds (FY19: RM8 million) and the accounting impact on lease recognition (RM17.7 million).

“These factors consequently caused its net profit to slide to RM18.8 million (-42% year-on-year),” it said.

Kenanga Research said GDEX’s balance sheet remains healthy with net cash holdings & short-term funds of RM237.2 million (or 4.2 sen per share) as of end-June 2020.

It said the Company has been using some of the cash pile to buy back its own shares in the open market.

“On the chart, GDEX’s share price – following its pullback from a high of 44.5 sen in late May – is currently in a sideways trading pattern.

“After bouncing up from the bottom of its consolidation range recently, the stock is eager to climb further. This is supported by the share price crossing over the lower boundary of the Bollinger Bands.

“We have set our resistance thresholds at 40 sen (R1; 14% upside potential) and 45 sen (R2; 29% upside potential).

“Our stop loss level is pegged at 31 sen (or 11% downside risk),” it said.KUALA LUMPUR (April 26): GDEX Bhd aims to be a pure-play last-mile delivery company with regional presence.

It will also start to look into investment in real assets, such as land and warehouses, and potentially create an industrial real estate investment trust (REIT) in future.

GDEX on Dec 22, 2020 changed its official name from GD Express Carrier Bhd to GDEX Bhd to mark a new growth phase of the group.

In line with the rebranding exercise, GDEX said it wants to transform its current business while building more core businesses to ensure the growth trajectory of the group.

In a corporate presentation following the name change, GDEX said it will accelerate growth in both organic and inorganic ways to create value for all stakeholders.

GDEX said to fuel the growth of the group, it will develop more new products and business segments, adding that digital and technology competency are the focus for developments.

On its new products offerings, GDEX said it aims to provide more comprehensive digital solutions for customers.

The firm said to build new business segments, it plans to create additional revenue streams and profit centres to drive the growth of the group.

GDEX said investment for inorganic growth includes strengthening the current core business by investing in strategic areas.

The firm said it will focus on its cash flow and profitability.

It said it will expand its business portfolio inorganically to accelerate growth.

GDEX explained it will expand further in the logistics sector by moving into forwarding services, customs clearance and the cold chain, which are very synergistic with the last-mile business.

From there, the group can further expand into the land, air and sea cargo business, it said.

In a text message to the theedgemarkets.com, GDEX managing director and group chief executive officer (CEO) Teong Teck Lean said the remodelling of the group will be similar to in the early 2000s.

“We want to be high-growth again,” he said.

When Teong Teck Lean became the CEO of fledgling courier outfit in 2000, it was an ailing company running at a loss, with a lack of self-belief and low morale even among its shareholders.

Teong said technology is very key to the group’s future expansion.

He explained that with the in-house-built IT department, and investment in Web Bytes, the group can expand the business into the technology solution development segment.

“With presence in the region, our know-how in supply chain management and our strength in IT, the group can expand into cross-border remittance and even look into the financing business to assist our customers.

“These are financial-sector related,” he said.

Teong said with the infrastructure built across various segments of business, GDEX can offer a very comprehensive service to customers.

“GDEX can distribute consumer lines of products, such as healthcare products, communications equipment/parts and other consumer products, in the region,” he said.

At 9.48am, GDEX had risen 1.28% or half a sen to 39.5 sen, valuing it at RM2.23 billion.GD Express Carrier Bhd (GDEX), through its wholly-owned subsidiary GD Express Sdn. Bhd. (GDSB), announced the expansion of its warehouses, distribution centres and transportation fleet to cater to the tremendous increase in order volumes following to the booming of Malaysia’s e-commerce market. The project which commenced on Nov 1 is expected to create more than 1,000 employment opportunities for Malaysians. 
 
Further expanding the existing capacity, GDEX Group also intends to diversify its information technology (IT) infrastructure systems to efficiently support its operation in the regions for the next five (5) years.

This novel system will include the future use of DeKAT (Social Commerce Supply Chain) to extend the logistics services and create a seamless supply chain facility to the small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs), social entrepreneurs and fulfilment houses; KITA (Last Mile Delivery Platform) an efficient hybrid model to provide 5,000 sustainable gig economy opportunities; and R’MADA (Fleet Operation as well as Maintenance Platform and System) to increase productivity and efficiency of fleet management.
 
Dato’ Azman Mahmud, Chief Executive Officer of the Malaysian Investment Development Authority (MIDA), said “E-commerce has been the fastest growing sector in the global trade landscape and assumed to be an integral component in enabling the growth of supply chain industry. While Malaysia continues to create a pro-business environment, GDEX expansion and diversification will complement the logistical infrastructure in providing seamless and reliable services to e-commerce and e-fulfilment activities.”
 
Since its inception in March 1996, GDEX Group through GDSB has been developing feasible IT solutions to support e-commerce activities such as myGDEX. It is an online shipping platform to enhance customer’s delivery experience; cloud-based call centre and Interactive Voice Response (IVR) support to allow companies deploying call centre at any strategic area within Malaysia.

It also includes the GDEX mobile apps for courier which will enable couriers to update the status of pick-up and delivery on a real-time basis; e-wallet payment acceptance and GDEX e-commerce integration which provides seamless integration with online stores such as WOO Commerce, Magento, opencart, NET SHOP, payex and unicart.
 
GDSB has been granted with tax incentive by MIDA to carry out Integrated Logistics Services (ILS) activities as an expansion project and e-commerce/e-fulfillment diversity project. The Government through MIDA provides incentive to encourage logistics companies to undertake logistics operation in an integrated manner, to adopt technology in their operations and to position themselves as regional e-Fulfilment hub providers in Malaysia.

For the period of January to September 2020, MIDA has approved a total of seven (7) ILS projects worth RM708.9 million, including two related to the e-commerce/e-fulfillment projects.
 
“The ILS incentive came in timely as a catalyst for the Group to embark on the programmes in improving, expanding and innovate its operations and products offerings. It enables us to strengthen our logistical support facilities and capabilities,” said Tan Sri Muhammad bin Ibrahim, Chairman of GDEX. “This incentive will motivate us to continue with our vision to become an ASEAN courier and e-logistic company. The ILS incentive would also contribute positively to our effort to tighten up our operations and improve service quality. MIDA’s support and facilitation to the business community will go a long way in promoting a strong, resilient and reliable courier and logistics industry for the country.”
 
MIDA will continue to facilitate companies in their project implementations which subsequently help to chart the growth and development of the e-commerce sector; in result, positioning Malaysia as the Regional e-Fulfillment Hub.