RECENTLY, I ordered an item online which was to be shipped by PosLaju. When I arrived home a few days later, I saw the “dreaded” slip from PosLaju stating that an attempt had been made to deliver the package but no one was around to receive it. I say dreaded because it’s not the first time this has happened to me.

Why can’t the PosLaju personnel call before delivering the package? Most courier services send a text message or call the customer to provide the estimated time of delivery to ensure that someone is around to receive the package.

I called the PosLaju customer service to track down the delivery person, only to be told that it does not have direct contact with its courier personnel. I feel the delivery personnel should leave their contact number on the notification slip so that customers could call them. As it was, I could only call after 6.30pm to ask where my package was.

This management and operational method is completely bizarre and impractical in this day and age. Where businesses everywhere are improving on customer service, PosLaju seems to have this lackadaisical attitude where the aim is to just perform the basic duties and efficiency is not a matter for concern.

With simple enhancements to its communication and logistical procedures, PosLaju could reduce the chances of unreachable parcels and save everyone’s time. Please, let us put more seriousness into our work and make Malaysia a better place.

The company's investment in digital and extensive delivery fleet enables it to process and deliver orders to an industry-leading volume of customers

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia, Dec. 17, 2020 /PRNewswire/ -- Based on its recent analysis of the E-Commerce and logistics service market, Frost & Sullivan recognizes Pos Laju with the 2020 Malaysia E-Commerce Logistics Service Provider of the Year and 2020 Malaysia Express Logistics Service Provider of the Year awards. Its best-in-class facilities, broad range of products, strong network, and experienced workforce have enabled the company to consistently provide reliable, cost-effective services that present sustainability benefits for itself and its customers. With more than 200 branches nationwide, Pos Laju has established itself as the leading express and delivery service provider in Malaysia and the best in many logistics services.

Its best-in-class facilities, broad range of products, strong network, and experienced workforce have enabled the company to consistently provide reliable, cost-effective services that present sustainability benefits for itself and its customers. With more than 200 branches nationwide, Pos Laju has established itself as the leading express and delivery service provider in Malaysia and the best in many logistics services.
"Pos Laju is the courier arm of the Pos Malaysia Group which offers express parcel delivery services. The Group has an extensive courier network infrastructure, with more than 1,500 primary channels of service delivery that include 99 branches, 39 kiosks, 162 agents spread across the country," said Gopal R, Global Vice President of the Transportation & Logistics Practice at Frost & Sullivan.  To date, Pos Laju has established about 139 EziBox, 100 EziDrop, and 19 EziDrive-Thru, and is targeting another 3,000 touchpoints via partner operator networks in the near future."

The company has set up a new integrated processing center (IPC2) at KLIA that can process 230,000 parcels per day. With its existing IPC1 and IPC2, Pos Laju recorded the greatest processing capacity in Malaysia at 530,000 parcels per day. It has ensured delivery of sufficient manpower and an in-house fleet to provide efficient, uninterrupted services to its customers. In 2019, the company's fleet of 3,020 delivery vehicles (trailers, prime movers, lorries, three freighter aircraft, two bulk carrier vessels) as well as 6,599 motorcycles recorded delivery of 59.8 million parcels and 175.6 million parcels per annum for each vehicle type.

More than 700 postmen have been deployed in numerous rural areas and islands, reaching 241,000 villagers nationwide. The company has increased the frequency of flights from Peninsular to East Malaysia to transport more items back and forth. Expanding its digital capabilities, Pos Laju introduced SendParcel: a digital service that empowers customers to check delivery rates, book a delivery, and generate consignment notes online. It also allows eCommerce businesses to initiate bulk orders for domestic and international delivery. With this platform, Pos Laju aims to broaden its footprint, especially among SMEs and micro SMEs that account for more than 98% of its business in Malaysia.

"Pos Laju focuses on the entire supply chain ecosystem and services as  best practices so it can manage its clients' and its own needs better," noted Gopal. "Pos Laju stands out among other market participants for its extensive product portfolio. The company has set strategic plans to strengthen its facilities and enable even greater operational efficiency by acquiring improved tools and supporting digital transformation that will result in better service quality for its customers."

Each year, Frost & Sullivan presents this award to the company that has  maintained consistently high standards of service quality that resulted in trusted and strategic relationships. The company has leveraged on customer feedback, demonstrated superior speed/timeliness, ensured close to frictionless interaction, delivered outstanding price/performance value, offered a rich customer purchase/ownership experience, and raised its overall brand equity.

Frost & Sullivan Best Practices awards recognize companies in a variety of regional and global markets for demonstrating outstanding achievements and superior performance in areas such as leadership, technological innovation, customer service, and strategic product development. Industry analysts compare market participants and measure performance through in-depth interviews, analysis, and extensive secondary research to identify best practices in the industry.

About Frost & Sullivan

For six decades, Frost & Sullivan has been world-renowned for its role in helping investors, corporate leaders and governments navigate economic changes and identify disruptive technologies, Mega Trends, new business models and companies to action, resulting in a continuous flow of growth opportunities to drive future success. Contact us: Start the discussion. PETALING JAYA: After social media became rife with complaints about Pos Malaysia’s late deliveries and subpar customer service, the national postal service says it is doing its best to address these issues.

Pos Malaysia said the Covid-19 pandemic and restrictions imposed with the current partial lockdown had caused disruptions at its integrated parcel centre, while several post offices have been closed.

A spokesman told FMT Pos Malaysia was aware of the complaints on social media, maintaining that its social media team had been hard at work to attend to the gripes of customers.

“We continue to carry out our obligation by implementing mitigation plans and alternative measures to increase our capacity, ensuring the continuity of processing and deliveries of items.

“We are also sourcing for additional manpower to ramp up our operations to manage the high demand, especially for the recently concluded 11.11 sale and delivery of everyday items.

“We assure our customers that we are doing our best to ensure courier items are delivered to their doorstep as soon as possible or in certain areas, as soon as the situation permits.”

The spokesman also said areas with restrictions imposed have already been prompted to expect delivery delays, adding that Pos Malaysia is carrying out digitalisation efforts to enhance its services.

Social media has been abuzz with dissatisfaction about Pos Malaysia’s late deliveries and customer service, with one of the posts on the national postal service’s Facebook page receiving more than 3,200 comments from people inquiring about their parcels.

Complaints over poor service in Pos Malaysia’s Facebook page.
The most recent posts on its Facebook page included an average of 500 to 600 comments from people asking Pos Malaysia to track their parcels down, with the majority of them attaching tracking numbers.

Several of the users also said they had filed complaints with the Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission through its complaints portal, and those using Pos Malaysia’s services to conduct their online businesses were especially frustrated.

“Please release my parcels. It’s all food. 800 containers you know. Who is going to cover the RM7,000+ in losses?,” asked Syaira Ali on Facebook.

“#posmalaysia, how much longer do you want to hold customers’ parcels? It has been almost a month, when can I get my parcel? This parcel is for business, (it is) not personal,” said @aimanazizan95 on Twitter.

Another Twitter account, @farahharith, said she had a parcel which was dispatched from a Pos Malaysia branch in Perak on Oct 30 but she only received it in Sungai Buloh, Selangor, yesterday.

“I got especially angry when I was told the customer service is a third party (contractor), and it’s near impossible to call or speak to anyone at Pos Malaysia itself,” she said.

Another Twitter user by the name of @dfc1601 called Pos Malaysia’s customer service “a joke”, adding that “everything is an automated reply that essentially tells you nothing.”

“As if 2020 wasn’t stressful enough,” added @dfc1601.

In April, Pos Malaysia issued a statement asking the public to be patient after a video of mountains of parcels at its KLIA hub went viral on Twitter, with Pos Malaysia stating that the movement control order (MCO) had created a backlog of parcels.

In June, it issued another statement saying it was experiencing a surge of parcel volume, especially in East Malaysia.

Subscribe to our newsletter and get news delivered to your mailbox.